# Smart Garbage Classification
</br>
The increasing volume of urban waste necessitates innovative solutions for
efficient garbage management. This study proposes a Smart Garbage Classification
system that leverages state-of-the-art techniques in computer vision and deep
learning to accurately categorize waste items. The system utilizes a comprehensive
dataset comprising diverse images of garbage items, covering various shapes,
sizes, and backgrounds. To enhance the model's performance and generalization
capabilities, image augmentation techniques are applied during the preprocessing
stage. This aids in creating a more robust model by artificially expanding the
dataset, exposing the model to a broader range of possible variations in garbage
images. Transfer learning is employed using a pre-trained EfficientNet B0 model,
known for its efficiency and effectiveness in image classification tasks. The model
is fine-tuned on the garbage classification dataset, allowing it to adapt and
specialize in recognizing specific garbage categories. This approach significantly
reduces training time and computational resources while improving classification
accuracy. The proposed system undergoes rigorous evaluation on real-world
garbage images, demonstrating its ability to accurately classify waste items into
predefined categories such as recyclable, non-recyclable, and organic. The results
highlight the effectiveness of the combined strategies, showcasing the model's
capacity to handle diverse and challenging garbage classification scenarios. The
Smart Garbage Classification system presented in this study holds promise for
practical implementation in waste management systems, contributing to the
automation and optimization of garbage sorting processes. This research represents
a step forward in the application of advanced computer vision techniques for
addressing contemporary environmental challenges.

